Make all formbuilder field types accept a custom widget (#12879)
wagtail/wagtail: docs/reference/contrib/forms/customization.md

    # content_panels = ...
```

> ## Customizing the widget of an existing field type
> 
> When rendering a form, different field types will be rendered using the
> appropriate fields and widgets . But sometimes you need
> an extra bit of customization and want to 
> 
> The `wagtailforms` will use the appropriate field and widget when rendering
> different field types (an email field will use Django's `EmailField`
> and its corresponding `EmailInput` widget for example). But sometimes you need
> an extra bit of customization and in those cases you might want to be able
> to use a custom widget for a given field type.
> 
> Say for example you've made your own checkbox widget that has all the right
> logic and template customizations you like. We'll call it `CustomCheckboxWidget`.
> To have your forms use that widget, you need to create a custom form builder
> class, and override the `get_checkbox_field()` method
> 
> ```python
> from wagtail.contrib.forms.forms import FormBuilder
> 
> from yourproject.widgets import CustomCheckboxWidget
> 
> 
> class CustomFormBuilder(FormBuilder):
>     # replace `checkbox` with the field type you want to customize
>     # (singleline, email, ...)
>     def create_checkbox_field(self, field, options):
>         options["widget"] = CustomCheckboxWidget
>         return super().create_checkbox_field(field, options)
> ```
> 
> Once you have that custom form builder class you can tell your form to
> use it by setting the `form_builder` attribute on it:
> 
> ```python
> from wagtail.contrib.forms.models import AbstractEmailForm
> 
> 
> class FormPage(AbstractEmailForm):
>     # intro, thank_you_text, edit_handlers, etc...
> 
>     # use custom form builder defined above
>     form_builder = CustomFormBuilder
> ```
> 
> And voila, now any checkbox created on the form page will be rendered using
> our custom widget!
> 

Reviewer: I have re-worked this documentation entry, I hope that is OK. Just going with a more end to end example plus making the language more formal.

I also wanted to show that you can define the widget with the immediate initialisation if you want.

```suggestion

(custom_form_field_type_widgets)=

## Customizing the widget of built-in field types

When rendering a form, each field type will be rendered using its default widget, the widget used can be overridden as follows.

Define your custom widget, in this example we will override the email type with an enhanced `EmailInput` widget.

```py
# myapp/widgets.py
from django import forms
from django.utils.translation import gettext as _

#... other imports

class CustomEmailInputWidget(forms.EmailInput):
    """
    This is a custom input type for the email field, with refined
    extra attributes for cross-browser compatibility.
    """

    def __init__(self, attrs={}):

        attrs = {
            "autocapitalize": "off",
            "autocomplete": "email",
            "autocorrect": "off",
            "placeholder": _("email@example.com"),
            "spellcheck": "false",
            **attrs, # let supplied attrs override the new defaults
        }

        super().__init__(attrs=attrs)
```

Override the `create_TYPE_field` method for the `email` type, assigning the widget to the field's options that have been defined by user entry.

```python
from wagtail.contrib.forms.forms import FormBuilder

from myapp.widgets import CustomEmailInputWidget

class CustomFormBuilder(FormBuilder):
    # Override any of the `create_TYPE_field` to apply to different field types
    # e.g., create_singleline_field, create_checkboxes_field, create_url_field
    def create_email_field(self, field, options):
        options["widget"] = CustomEmailInputWidget
        return super().create_checkbox_field(field, options)

    # Alternatively, you can instantiate the widget directly with custom attributes
    def create_singleline_field(self, field, options):
        options["widget"] = forms.TextInput(attrs={"class": "custom-class"})
        return super().create_singleline_field(field, options)
```

As per other customizations, ensure you have set the `form_builder` attribute on your form page model.

```python
from wagtail.contrib.forms.models import AbstractEmailForm

class FormPage(AbstractEmailForm):
    # intro, thank_you_text, edit_handlers, etc...

    # use custom form builder defined above
    form_builder = CustomFormBuilder
```
```
